Marcus M Darden: So much setup for this class. So much setup.
Marcus M Darden: Okay, I think we're on good standing here, so… what do we have in here?
Marcus M Darden: 12 people here, and… Just me online. Okay, perfect.
Marcus M Darden: So… I will pop into… Ed, right quick here.
Marcus M Darden: Get us updated, and this has got to go down, too.
Marcus M Darden: Realize that puts us in the dark.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, a little brighter. Trying to keep it dark up here, it makes it easier to see the screen. Is that good? Is it fine out there? I don't know if it gets too dark out there, it's…
Marcus M Darden: It's easier to just go to sleep than it is to listen to me, but… So, here we are on Ed, and I just posted this…
Marcus M Darden: So, we all understand where we are, right? This is a bit of an experimental class. We're trying to get it going. We have people that are coming from a bunch of different places in terms of what they know and what skills they have. So, if they're feeling a little scared and overwhelmed.
Marcus M Darden: That's okay.
Marcus M Darden: Probably all are, and for one reason or another. So, to try to pull this into a place where we can all move forward a bit. Some of us will have some side issues that we need to work on, whether it's learning the language better, or learning Git, or whatever. So, this is my post.
Marcus M Darden: I just said, stick with us.
Marcus M Darden: Our goal here is to just get something working both for you and for the class in the future. So, if the course doesn't end up, you know, where we initially wanted it to be.
Marcus M Darden: because we're dealing with a different population than we initially thought the course was gonna be, then that's just what's gonna have to happen. So, don't get too stressed about it. So that's why I said we're running on experimental wheels, we're gonna change parts of the course to suit your skills and knowledge.
Marcus M Darden: We're still having people that are finding out about the course, so there's new people here. Who's new in the room today?
Marcus M Darden: So we got at least 2 new people here, maybe more. So we're gonna have to get you caught up as well. There's just so many things going on to make this happen. So we will be changing stuff to get this, and we're gonna adjust the way some of this turn-in and work gets done. Rafe and I haven't had all the time to work together, and now we're working together furiously, so…
Marcus M Darden: we're getting it, to a place where we can be. I understood that most of you went to the optional lab just to get stuff together and started. That's very good, I'm happy for that. It also gave Rafe a chance to get to know you and where you were, and get that information back to me.
Marcus M Darden: So we can figure out what we're dialing in on, so…
Marcus M Darden: We will have to use Git and GitHub. That's just kind of…
Marcus M Darden: the way that programming works nowadays. You just have to use these things. So, I also recognize that you haven't had a course that teaches you these things, either. I teach EEX 201, and in EX 201, we do talk about Git. We've got lectures in there about how to use Git.
Marcus M Darden: But it's a… right now… well, now it's a two-credit course. It was one credit just, last semester, and now we've upgraded it to two, so that might be one that you might look into having. It's a course to help you just learn how to do more things on the computer. So it's not a particular language, it's…
Marcus M Darden: how to do stuff in IDEs, how to do stuff in…
Marcus M Darden: Debuggers, and make files, and build systems, and…
Marcus M Darden: Git, and all kind of things that just kind of get jumbled in there that would be a really good thing to know, but we only have one lecture on each one of them, and then you go on to the next one. So…
Marcus M Darden: I think there's two lectures in Git there, but it's the kind of thing that you need to know how to do. So, we will be using Git and GitHub. They're separate, if you don't understand what they are. Git is a program that's used
Marcus M Darden: To do source code
Marcus M Darden: control. So, when you've got something that you've written, and then you make changes to it, That's what Git…
Marcus M Darden: thrives on. Updating… what's that? Version control. Yes, version control. So, it is a version control software, and then there's GitHub, which is a web-based interface
Marcus M Darden: to Git and Git repos. And so, it's a separate software, you can use Git all by yourself on your machine all the time, and never have to use GitHub.
Marcus M Darden: Or you can incorporate GitHub, we're gonna do both.
Marcus M Darden: Obviously we need Python, it's a course in Python, and we haven't all had the same amount of Python, so we're gonna be trying to bring those skills up to a consistent place. So, your feedback all along the way about what you don't know is gonna be very helpful through Rafe and through me. Alright?
Marcus M Darden: So, I understand that Rafe posted something earlier as well. This was something we talked about after my lecture this morning. So, this is talking about GitHub. It says, we need you to fill out the survey, which is going to ask you what your GitHub username is. So, of course, if you don't have a GitHub account, you're gonna have to make one of those.
Marcus M Darden: So we need that because it's just a public website, so there's no way for us to identify you out on the world if we don't know what your GitHub handle is.
Marcus M Darden: I'm Marcus-Darden, and I think Rafe is Rafe Simons, so you can find us out there, and you can track us down, but…
Marcus M Darden: That's what's gonna be the important thing about
Marcus M Darden: this thing here, right? It's giving your name, your unique name, so we can put you in our gradebook, but we also need your GitHub username.
Marcus M Darden: And just to get a…
Marcus M Darden: a feel for where you stand with Git. So, that's what's, good, and then absolutely use this, anything else you would like the staff to know to fill us in on what your Python skills are, what your fears and worries are, what your concerns are.
Marcus M Darden: oh, this is your first day, all of that stuff is important there. So, somebody pointed out to me there wasn't enough
Marcus M Darden: information here at Canvas, so that site's been updated a bit.
Marcus M Darden: If I get here and view as student.
Marcus M Darden: Right, so this lecture recordings tab has been added, so we are being recorded. That green light up there on the camera tells me it's on, so there's a whole lecture capture site that has these things in it
Marcus M Darden: So that's put on there, and then a link to the GitHub
Marcus M Darden: for the course, the one repo for the course, and it won't, for whatever reason, it doesn't like to run inside of a tab in Canvas, so you're gonna have to open that up in a new tab, right? And I had it opened up.
Marcus M Darden: But, we'll close that one down. So, that's what's going on in Canvas in terms of updates. Lecture recordings, there's Lecture 0, just a nice little…
Marcus M Darden: AI-generated summary of the lecture, so you can sort of track these things. It's an extra manual step, so this might fall behind a little bit, don't…
Marcus M Darden: don't, be counting on this really nice production the whole time. But it will list all the lectures with just date, time, timestamps by automatic, so about an hour after that green light goes off.
Marcus M Darden: the processing is done, and then it will be auto-published from here on out, so you should be able to get that. If you're new to class, you can log into Canvas, go to lecture recordings, and then watch the lecture from last week's Thursday to help you get caught up there. Rash around and see what you can and can't do there.
Marcus M Darden: What questions so far?
Marcus M Darden: So far, so good. Alright, so yeah, I think we're on the order of 11… I think we had 10 people in here last time.
Marcus M Darden: And we're at 15 now, nobody online. One of the things that we found out that we were gonna need is probably a laptop. If you want to also have your tablet nearby for note-taking, perfectly good, way to get after it, but we're gonna be doing programming stuff in class. It's an applied class.
Marcus M Darden: So, having a keyboard and being able to interface with these things is gonna be kind of important. So, there's that.
Marcus M Darden: Alright.
Marcus M Darden: I think that's all the intro stuff.
Marcus M Darden: Does that sound good? Is there anything else that I'm missing here? Or updates or information that you're looking for?
Marcus M Darden: And this is also gonna be, like, much better if you actually speak instead of thinking about it. So, if you got something, just put it out there. Yeah, go for it. How is this section different from, the 01?
Marcus M Darden: So, 281 and 40301 are one course.
Marcus M Darden: their data structures and algorithms in C++, and for CS majors, that course will count for CS majors.
Marcus M Darden: 291 and 40302,
Marcus M Darden: is this version of it in Python. It's a little… it's a little bit less theoretical, it's designed for non-majors, so majors can't take it for credit. So it's for people who don't need to have the theory to go on into further, more complicated CS courses. It does…
Marcus M Darden: with that, then go as a much better fit for someone who might be doing something like data science, or working on a minor in CS,
Marcus M Darden: Because it sets you up for that. So, it will count in the minors, and it will be useful for other master's students who would be saying, I'm not going to be a CS master's student, I'm going to be a DS Master's student, you know, something from SI or something like that.
Marcus M Darden: So, that's where that one is.
Marcus M Darden: You had one, or no? You're good? You're good. Just an itch, I love those.
Marcus M Darden: Alright.
Marcus M Darden: Is that good?
Marcus M Darden: All right, so I'll be trying to go back and forth, so as you watch these.
Marcus M Darden: videos, I also make sure that I'm recording the correct screen, so when you come back to see stuff later, it's in there. Right now, what it does is… you gotta keep reminding me, because I'll forget, is it records
Marcus M Darden: the right screen.
Marcus M Darden: Which, to you, is the left screen.
Marcus M Darden: It says right up here, and if I… I'm just used to turning around to look at the screen, and I look at that, and I was like, that's the left screen.
Marcus M Darden: But it's not. That's the…
Marcus M Darden: Right screen. So, it records this screen onto the video, so if you see me cruising through lecture, and I've, you know, sort of swapped up the tablet or the screen, so that I was… I got my tablet over here, so possibly I can help with some notes as we go through, understanding what we do and don't have.
Marcus M Darden: Or, no and don't know.
Marcus M Darden: So, that's what I'm gonna do there for now. Sometimes I can pull up both of these when we're flying, we'll be good.
Marcus M Darden: But… That's good enough to get started.
Marcus M Darden: So, let's go back to our GitHub page, which is where Over here.
Marcus M Darden: I want to be on this machine.
Marcus M Darden: There it is, okay.
Marcus M Darden: My mouse jumped onto the other machine.
Marcus M Darden: So, here is the student materials page, right? And that is…
Marcus M Darden: that link that you get from Canvas, if you…
Marcus M Darden: click on the GitHub, kicks you into another tab, it takes you to this page here. So this is a GitHub repo for those of you that haven't done Git, and you see it has all of my files here, just in, like, a normal sort of file system interface, where I've got folders and files that I can click on.
Marcus M Darden: files that are in this directory named readme.md end up being displayed down below. So, the source of this file is this file here. So if I go look at this file in terms of what it looks like in raw code.
Marcus M Darden: That's what this file looks like.
Marcus M Darden: But GitHub will take a README in any directory and turn that into something that is…
Marcus M Darden: rendered so that it looks nice. So all Markdown is, is an easy way to make
Marcus M Darden: HTML-like documents. So I'll take a… for instance, I'll take a single hashtag, and that turns into a H1, that turns into an H2. I can make, bulleted lists with hyphens like this. If I want to indent
Marcus M Darden: I can have a list inside of a list, if you want to put numbers out there that make numbers. These backticks, they're called backticks. Those backticks will give you a fenced code block, so it tries to write this in code font instead of normal font. So, the cool part about Markdown is it's still very, very readable as a file itself, and then when it gets rendered, it's even nicer to look at, but you're not lost with something that only renders
Marcus M Darden: like, HTML only renders well. When you read HTML, it's hard to read. There's tags all over the place, and all kind of formatting information that makes it hard to read. Markdown tries to go away from that and say, we still want to make it look nice.
Marcus M Darden: with the least amount of interference in the file as possible. So, that's what this file looks like when it is…
Marcus M Darden: looked at closely, but if I have that exact same file rendered, this is what it looks like. These are where those hyphens were giving me bulleted lines, and you can see the back ticks were put on this line right here.
Marcus M Darden: to make that turn into something that looks like code. So, markdown documents are very important. You're gonna be using them, you're gonna be reading, you're gonna be learning from them. Later on, you get into doing stuff, interacting with
Marcus M Darden: future tools, Markdown is just becoming more and more popular. So, GitHub is going to be using it, and that's where we are. So, if I'm back at the top level of this repo, I get this, and so I'll see the primary directories read me, and then all of the folders there, and you can see the last time anything here was modified.
Marcus M Darden: That's what's in this column, is the text that was in there. So some of this stuff has been there exactly like that since the day I committed it, because I called that initial commit. There was a commit that said add the lecture 0, then there was another one that said add lecture 1, and then I have this one where I added PDFs, because I knew some people didn't have their
Marcus M Darden: computers last time, so I printed the slides to PDFs. So you can get to those as well. If you have this in your directory, right, you should have…
Marcus M Darden: If you read the… how to use this repo. It talks about what you need to do to
Marcus M Darden: Well, there's the quick start. There's a go. There's the quick start. This talks about how to repo, you have to make sure Git is installed, which that might be a thing that you need to do on your Mac if you don't have Git installed on your PC.
Marcus M Darden: We'll have to add that to it, but, if you don't have it, you should be able to do your standard install, so, like a brew install git…
Marcus M Darden: Or something along those lines. I think you have to have brew… have to have get to get brew, so…
Marcus M Darden: So we've got that, and that put me into something here, and I talked about creating a virtual environment, and installing the things that we need.
Marcus M Darden: I have my…
Marcus M Darden: This is running my Jupyter notebooks. And so, here's what I did. I said, you know, you're gonna move into something that is…
Marcus M Darden: the directory where you're going to keep stuff. And so I said I'm going to keep all my stuff in
Marcus M Darden: courses slash EX291. So, the student repo is this one, so I changed the directory into EX291W26.
Marcus M Darden: There's gonna be one repo that we give you for every project. So, by the end of the semester, you should have probably 5 repos, sort of the student content, and then each one of the four projects.
Marcus M Darden: So, I'm gonna go into the one that has the stuff that we were just looking at, and we'll see there's that same list of files that was here, right? I've got a folder named Exam, Lab, Lecture, and Project.
Marcus M Darden: exam, lab, lecture, and project, plus the readme.md, so here I am, looking at my local copies of these files, because I have
Marcus M Darden: made changes on GitHub. This is the stuff that I broadcast about when I say, hey, I just posted Lecture 1, which was in that other post, kind of…
Marcus M Darden: Hid the lead there, right?
Marcus M Darden: Buried the lead. So Lecture 1 is released, by the way, plus all of this other stuff. Maybe could have done that in two posts, but Lecture 1 is released, so when you get something like that, what you need to do is you need to go to this directory, I just did, and then we're gonna do a git pull.
Marcus M Darden: And git pull says, I want to get the information that somebody else has already posted up there, and you'll see that it just pulled all of that down. And I think Rafe had that set as a, if you get a feedback that it complains about that.
Marcus M Darden: Rafe did a little bit on there, too, and so…
Marcus M Darden: Let me make sure I read it correctly. Oh, there it is. So, we're looking at git pull with this dash FF only, so that's probably the more appropriate way to do this.
Marcus M Darden: It's not gonna do anything different for me since I already did a pull. But what that does is git pull, and it does a fast forward only, so it's not gonna try to mess with anything that you've got changed on your local, it's just gonna try to pull the things that we have forward into there. So, because I did this, you'll see what happened.
Marcus M Darden: Right? The fast-forward says these things were added. It looks like lecture 00introduction.html wasn't on my device. So all of these things got pulled to my device from there. Remember when we were in lecture.
Marcus M Darden: this stuff didn't even exist, and we were trying to figure out a way so people could see slides, so we just created this on the fly. I didn't have it. Same with the PDFs. And then after class, I made edits to the notebook, which I will do, and I'm gonna turn around and then repost those edits.
Marcus M Darden: Just so they don't clobber your edits, though, I'm gonna rename the posted edits later.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So, you see that third one there underneath my two highlights. I said, there's lecture zero introduction presented. So that's the version that I modified in class. So, presented is then added later. Then I added
Marcus M Darden: today's lecture slides, Lecture 1, and I also added them as PDFs, so you can see them in a print format, if you like that.
Marcus M Darden: Right? In addition, the Lecture 1 needed some data, so I added a data subdirectory, and there's files in there called artists, plays, and tracks.
Marcus M Darden: And then, after lecture the other day, I also added
Marcus M Darden: this transcript file, which I took the transcript from the Zoom that's currently broadcasting in the lecture, I took the transcript and just put it in there. So, if you want to go back there, you can look at the things that were said, if you want to do some additional
Marcus M Darden: text mungling on that, you can, so if I do a VI…
Marcus M Darden: Right.
Marcus M Darden: So this is…
Marcus M Darden: time-stamped transcript of everything I said during lecture that day, and so I'll post one of those, too, from this thing, if you want to use some AI tools to help summarize this. Might be a good way to go at studying this, but I'm just trying to make it available
Marcus M Darden: So that you can get at it if you want. Make sense? So, after every…
Marcus M Darden: After every lecture, you can look for me to update with a presented And a transcript.
Marcus M Darden: Then for every lecture, I'll be putting up, an IPI NV, and a PDF.
Marcus M Darden: the HTML was just a little trial thing we tried to do at that time, it didn't work. So, there won't be additional HTMLs.
Marcus M Darden: After Lecture zero. So, every lecture will be a…
Marcus M Darden: a notebook and a PDF, and after every lecture, we'll have a modified notebook and a transcript.
Marcus M Darden: So far, so good?
Marcus M Darden: Sweet.
Marcus M Darden: If I need to make changes to additional data, more data might show up.
Marcus M Darden: But it's just going to depend on how the lectures go as we… the data is just used in the examples in the lectures.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, so, I've got my… local… I had to spin up my server so that I can look at…
Marcus M Darden: the notebooks. So once I spun it up, it opens up a web page for me, it looks like this, and this is my directory with all the stuff in it for the course.
Marcus M Darden: Right? And in there is…
Marcus M Darden: the lectures, and I've got all the lectures. I'm gonna slowly put them in your directory as I need to, but as of now, the stuff I have is in here.
Marcus M Darden: So I can pop that open, and this is today's lecture notes.
Marcus M Darden: You should have this.
Marcus M Darden: If you did a git pull, or if you didn't do a git pull and you just did the original clone, you would also already have this. So, if you've gotten this to your machine, you should be okay. So, you would be able to follow along like this.
Marcus M Darden: This is an IPython notebook that, once you've got your own local copy, you're totally free to edit.
Marcus M Darden: Delete if you want to, not suggested, but if you want to add stuff, you can continue to add here. So, this thing has this concept of cells, and you can see this is a whole cell, and this is just a markdown cell. It looks really nice and rendered, but if I double-click in it.
Marcus M Darden: You see, it's really just text. If I want to add something to this, I can. So,
Marcus M Darden: Say, you know, This is a note.
Marcus M Darden: from class.
Marcus M Darden: And then if I save it, it stays in there. But once I've edited it here, there's this concept of running a cell. If I hit run, then for the markdown cells, it just re-renders them. So now, that note that I put in from class shows up in here.
Marcus M Darden: The thought is, I will produce this notebook for you, and you can mark it up as it's helpful to you to add notes to things. You'll be able to run the code that's in the notebook when you do work in the course for lecture.
Marcus M Darden: follow along work, you'll be writing it right in the notebook. So you'll have your own version of it, and I'll keep my version of it. I won't push you my edited versions other than, like I said, when I said, presented
Marcus M Darden: in the other repo. So, that's what's going on here. So you'll be able to look at it and follow along like this, but what I also have the ability to do is.
Marcus M Darden: I can show this thing as… slides.
Marcus M Darden: So this is the exact same content that we just looked at, however, if I get too much on…
Marcus M Darden: A slide, it gets cut off.
Marcus M Darden: So, you gotta kind of be careful about how much stuff goes on a slide, right? Because… what did I have here?
Marcus M Darden: It said, build a read, clean, aggregate report pipeline. Then it said, this is a note from class, but it's too much, so the slide doesn't show that note from class. It's not that it's not there, it's just that it rolled off the bottom of the screen, so… and I don't know exactly how to scroll down
Marcus M Darden: on a screen without scrolling to a bottom thing, so I'll figure that out later. But until then, I'm gonna try to knock off the screen. Good. All right, so you can follow along in your notebooks.
Marcus M Darden: Making edits, updates, notes, trying things.
Marcus M Darden: That's what the goal is, and I'll be able to present off it here. You'll see that I have more slides to go, and when I can go to the next slide, it does that. And when this slide has a sub-slide, it gives me the chance to go down.
Marcus M Darden: So, here we are talking about Lecture 1 today. We're working on Python Standard Library and doing data work.
Marcus M Darden: We come up with this small, little imaginary Spotify-style data set, so we can just do some stuff.
Marcus M Darden: And the files they're talking about are tracks.csv, plays.csv, and artists.json. All of those things are in the data directory that you would have pulled down, so you should be able to find it right there. So if I go into my directory here, remember, I'm in that directory. If I say ls.
Marcus M Darden: Let me get into lectures.
Marcus M Darden: There we go. So here I am, I'm looking at the things you should see. If I do an LS of data, you'll see there's artists, plays.
Marcus M Darden: And tracks.
Marcus M Darden: So I have all of this stuff.
Marcus M Darden: This is a terminal program. If you don't have a terminal program, you need to find your way to one. There's one on your machine, I promise. You just have to find your way to it. In macOS, it's called Terminal…
Marcus M Darden: I think in Windows, it's called Command. If you run under WSL, you just get a… Normal shell.
Marcus M Darden: on Windows. So, so those are the files that it's talking about, and… Here we are.
Marcus M Darden: Our outline for today, I can…
Marcus M Darden: I'll leave it like it is.
Marcus M Darden: It was just gonna be first half talking about this stuff, second half talking about some other stuff, and then I talked to Rafe, and we were figuring out where we all are in the Pythons thing, so… so we've added a whole section here. I'm obviously not gonna get to
Marcus M Darden: what I need to get to today.
Marcus M Darden: what I was planning to get to today. Let's change that language. Not necessarily need to, planning to. We got plans, and then there's needs. So, we're gonna talk a bit about Python skills. There's a lot that I think that you need to know.
Marcus M Darden: If you don't know, as I said earlier in our first lecture about trying to keep yourself on the good side of the academic integrity line, you need to go to a reference site that's going to be safe for you. So, I pulled that up here in one of my other tabs as well.
Marcus M Darden: Here it is.
Marcus M Darden: docs.python.org.
Marcus M Darden: That's where the official documentation for Python is. Go there, keep a tab like that open all the time, because that's where you're going to get your stuff.
Marcus M Darden: For me, that was, like, a stack of books next to my computer, because that's how I grew up doing stuff. We didn't have…
Marcus M Darden: fancy web browsers and HTML and stuff like that. We just had books.
Marcus M Darden: We also… Had to walk to school, all kind of bad things. The Stone Age, you know. Alright.
Marcus M Darden: You guys gotta work on your… your humor. I'm working on it, I'm working on it.
Marcus M Darden: So, this is docs.python.org. If you go there, I think it drops you into the Python 3, because that's the default. So, we are officially working on Python 13. If you want to look at something past that, I don't think it's the worst thing in the world. But once you click on Python 13,
Marcus M Darden: Getting over here to this…
Marcus M Darden: Library Reference is a great place. If you want some tutorial stuff, great place to start here. Getting after tutorials.
Marcus M Darden: installing, but we're gonna stick to the early parts. Just make sure you've got a tutorial going on, and then this library reference is what you're gonna wanna keep open all the time. You're gonna see stuff in slides, you say, what is that word? You come here, you'll probably find it.
Marcus M Darden: So you'll see it talks about the built-in types, built-in exceptions.
Marcus M Darden: It talks about text processing, binary data, all my data types, and some of these things that I've already been in looking in to show you some stuff is in there. But everything that you need to know for the first half is gonna be something that you can find here, with very little exception.
Marcus M Darden: So, be sure to pull that open when it's time to get after some questions.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, so we'll go into Python skills, and the two that we're gonna first be leaning into is
Marcus M Darden: Comprehensions and exception handling.
Marcus M Darden: So what a comprehension is, is this really cool Python tactic of
Marcus M Darden: It turns a lot of loop-like behavior into these one-liners.
Marcus M Darden: And that's… Kind of a little…
Marcus M Darden: dense, when you're trying to get stuff done, it'd be nice to see a bunch of statements, so you could read and understand each statement individually, but Python comprehensions kind of mashed that all together into one. So once you learn how to do it, it's great, because you write less.
Marcus M Darden: But it can be a little hard to pick up in the beginning. So, it's a compact way, and you can use it to build lists or dictionaries from something that already exists. So, what a comprehension does is it takes something that's known as an iterable. So, if a thing is an iterable, that means you can step through it.
Marcus M Darden: first thing, second thing, third thing, fourth thing, fifth thing. So, it will take an iterable and create a list out of that. So, what you would do with the comprehension is say, well, give me the first word out of, you know, I've got a… maybe I've got a list of strings. Say, give me the first word out of each one of these strings, and make a list with those things. So, in C++, you might say, okay, well, first, I'm going to create a list of strings, and it's gonna be empty.
Marcus M Darden: And then I'm gonna write a loop, I'm gonna go through and read the first string, and I'm gonna extract the first word, I'm gonna push it into that…
Marcus M Darden: array or vector of strings, and then I'm gonna read the next word, I'm gonna push that in there, and then when I got done, I'd have a list. A comprehension from Python says, hey, I'm gonna make a list out of the first words of all these things, and it kind of does it in one line. So I'll show you an example in a minute, but that's kind of the translation of your other previous languages to C, sorry, to Python.
Marcus M Darden: We will use them to filter and transform things. It's pretty cool, because you can do a full-on do one of these things for each of the things in the iterable.
Marcus M Darden: Or you can say, do one of these things for each of the things in the iterable, but only if it meets a certain criteria. So, if it doesn't meet the criteria, don't do it for that thing.
Marcus M Darden: I don't think I've got a…
Marcus M Darden: That's my old, well, it's my… it's not old, it's new, so I have,
Marcus M Darden: I have a Do Not Disturb for my other lecture. Now I have one for this lecture.
Marcus M Darden: At least for today. So, well, like I said, you can… and here's where it says, if this is new, focus on the pattern.
Marcus M Darden: I've got this square brackets, which is what I use to create a list in Python, and the way that I do it syntactically is I say output.
Marcus M Darden: For item in items, if condition.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So, the only thing that really has to exist before I do this comprehension is items.
Marcus M Darden: This is my iterable.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So this is my iterable, the thing, my collection of strings, my list of files, whatever it is, this is my list of things.
Marcus M Darden: And then this is the temporary name that I'm going to apply to each one of them. So as it works through the iterable.
Marcus M Darden: the first item is going to be called item, the second item is then going to be called item, the third item is going to be called item, and so on. And so, then I can say, in this output stage, maybe I want to get, like, the X coordinates of all of the coordinates here. So, I might say something like.
Marcus M Darden: Coordinates… yikes! It wasn't what I was looking for.
Marcus M Darden: There we go.
Marcus M Darden: Chords is equal to some list of things. Let's say, 00… And 1, comma 1, and…
Marcus M Darden: negative 1, comma negative 1. So this is just a simple list of
Marcus M Darden: Python calls those things tuples. In this case, you can think of them also as ordered pairs, but it's just two numbers. So, I've got this, and now, if I want to do something with this, I might say, blah blah blah for…
Marcus M Darden: forward, and this is the way I like to do it, I like to take the singular
Marcus M Darden: You can call that thing anything you want.
Marcus M Darden: But to me, it makes more sense to be like, if I'm working on cords, probably looking at a coordinate.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So, here we are looking at
Marcus M Darden: for my own name I got to make up.
Marcus M Darden: In the existing thing.
Marcus M Darden: And now, what is output?
Marcus M Darden: Output is any other expression I make.
Marcus M Darden: It's any legal expression. I could just say 5.
Marcus M Darden: Right? If I said 5, what it would do is it would, one at a time, go through each one of the coordinates.
Marcus M Darden: And then for that coordinate, it would stick a 5 in my list. So if I just said 5 for cord and chords, I'd have a list of 3 fives.
Marcus M Darden: So any expression works there, but that's probably not so useful. I probably want something to do with the items in that list, otherwise I wouldn't be comprehending them. So, another valid expression is, once I know that cord is one of these coordinates, I can say, what about cord…
Marcus M Darden: Zero.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So now if I were to run this, and I'll just put some brackets on the outside.
Marcus M Darden: If I were to run that, I would end up with a list that had 0, 1, and negative 1 in it.
Marcus M Darden: That's how a comprehension works.
Marcus M Darden: So, with just that line right there.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So, then I might say something like, axes… equals that.
Marcus M Darden: So X's would then be…
Marcus M Darden: another list that had 0, 1, and negative 1 in it. Does that make sense?
Marcus M Darden: So that's what a comprehension does. You can also use it to do dictionaries. So in a dictionary, I have a key and a value pair, I just have to turn this output section into a key and a value pair, right? Then the part that I haven't covered so far is this if condition, and the same thing is true here. Now.
Marcus M Darden: If this condition is met, it puts output in there. If the condition is not met, it just doesn't put anything in there.
Marcus M Darden: So, I could have something like, and I've kind of ridden myself out of space here, I say, if…
Marcus M Darden: Chords… Oh, not cords.
Marcus M Darden: cord.
Marcus M Darden: Zero is greater than or equal to zero.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So if I put that in there, and I didn't make this fit nicely, but this would fit inside there. So that fits this pattern here, where it says.
Marcus M Darden: If… some condition.
Marcus M Darden: Like I said, that condition can be anything that's valid as an expression that can be, you know, evaluated, but you're more likely to want to actually have it apply to the data itself.
Marcus M Darden: So you could have something like, give me a list of everybody that's in.
Marcus M Darden: You know, if today is Wednesday, and then if it's not Wednesday, then nothing shows up.
Marcus M Darden: Right?
Marcus M Darden: But it's more likely you would use something from the data that you're using, so, if coward…
Marcus M Darden: 0 is greater than or equal to 0, then include that thing. So this one would then put that in there only if it was 0 or 1, but leave out the negative 1. So that's what a comprehension is.
Marcus M Darden: And that's the pattern. So, this part here is…
Marcus M Darden: More optional, so it's not always that you do the if.
Marcus M Darden: You don't have to do a NIF.
Marcus M Darden: If you're gonna do a comprehension, though, you definitely have to say output for item in items.
Marcus M Darden: That part has to be done.
Marcus M Darden: Alright.
Marcus M Darden: I'll scroll down here and look at this in Python. So, here is a collection of rows.
Marcus M Darden: And… each one of these rows in my list is a dictionary.
Marcus M Darden: And each dictionary has key-value pairs. In this case, I've got the keys track ID and genre in every dictionary. The values are T1, T2, T3 for tracks.
Marcus M Darden: and pop, Indian pop for genres.
Marcus M Darden: But, that's some information. So, now I have a list.
Marcus M Darden: which is an iterable, because I can think of that as having multiple items, and going from one item to the next, to the next, to the next. And so, you see that in this next line, it says, pop IDs, and I think…
Marcus M Darden: Don't let me break things. Yes, I did not break things. I got line numbers. So, in line 7, it says, make me a new list.
Marcus M Darden: Right? Because if you look at line 7, from, like, a thousand feet, you see pop IDs equals open square brackets, closed square brackets. That means I am making a list. Now, what's inside of it tells me what's in the list, qualitatively, but
Marcus M Darden: I am going to have a list, because I said, pop IDs equals square brackets, square brackets.
Marcus M Darden: So, now what we're gonna do is…
Marcus M Darden: a comprehension off of this list. And so it says, 4 are in rows.
Marcus M Darden: I should have said row in rows, I'm sorry. For R in rows, a lot of times people shorten that to a single character, too, because it's a really small loop, and it's hard to confuse what R is. I like to use bigger variables in more expressive code, just because it's easier to keep track of it, but here, in something as small as
Marcus M Darden: a comprehension, because it's usually in one line, it's hard to get lost and say, oh, I see R, what's R gonna be? It's gonna be there. I don't have to look far. So, it goes through, and one at a time, it assigns the row in line 2 to R, then the row in line 3 to R, then the row in line 4 to R.
Marcus M Darden: While R is active, it says, hey, what I want you to do is grab the track ID out of that particular row, and stick it into POPIDs.
Marcus M Darden: But… Only if the genre is pop.
Marcus M Darden: So, if the genre is not pop, it won't be inserted in there. So, I'll end up with pop IDs, it's gonna include
Marcus M Darden: T1, T2. Sorry.
Marcus M Darden: T1, T3.
Marcus M Darden: That make sense?
Marcus M Darden: How about the next one? The genre map.
Marcus M Darden: So the genre map is a dictionary. You can tell that because I said genre map equals curly brace, Lowe's curly brace. So there's gonna be a dictionary there. What's in it comes from what goes on. So this one does the same sort of thing. It's got that same…
Marcus M Darden: format, right? Looks like output… 4… In item, in items.
Marcus M Darden: So, in a list, All you can put in a list is a thing.
Marcus M Darden: In a dictionary, what you put in a dictionary is a key and value pair, and those are separated by a colon. So, I can see here that what's going to get put in there for each one of these rows is going to be a track ID, colon, genre.
Marcus M Darden: And so this is gonna make me a dictionary with 3 things in the dictionary, and they're gonna be, T1, which just says pop, T2, which says indie, and T3, which says pop.
Marcus M Darden: And then, we'll just output them there. So, let me run this.
Marcus M Darden: And that wasn't how I ran it.
Marcus M Darden: I'll get this right.
Marcus M Darden: Less useful, indeed.
Marcus M Darden: That didn't help at all. I'm getting there.
Marcus M Darden: I'm brain farting, sorry. How do I run these things?
Marcus M Darden: I need to figure out how to get back to health properly without…
Marcus M Darden: Alright, SAS the web.
Marcus M Darden: Ship dinner. Okay, that was easy enough.
Marcus M Darden: So, you see that the output of any one of these
Marcus M Darden: Python cells is the last thing that I do.
Marcus M Darden: So, the last thing I did was just say, hey, show me pop IDs, comma, genre map. So, here's pop IDs.
Marcus M Darden: comma, and then the genre map. So, just as we said before, the list comprehension has some filtering, so it filtered out all of the indies, but only took the track IDs. So, T1 and T3 is what remains. And then over here, this genre map says, if I look up a track by ID, I can also grab
Marcus M Darden: It's So that's how comprehensions work, and they're really strong.
Marcus M Darden: tool for dealing with data. So, when it comes time to go back over this.
Marcus M Darden: What you're looking up is comprehensions, list comprehensions, dictionary comprehensions.
Marcus M Darden: Good?
Marcus M Darden: Alright.
Marcus M Darden: Next Python skill, exception handling.
Marcus M Darden: So, in Python, the way that we do things is a little different than the way we do it in C++. C++ is a very,
Marcus M Darden: Guarded language, so that the… the…
Marcus M Darden: the tradition in C++ is, let me check to see if I can do something. Make sure all of the things are safe, and then when everything is clear, then I do it.
Marcus M Darden: Right? Python is just, like, YOLO, right? We're just gonna try some stuff. And…
Marcus M Darden: If it doesn't work, then we're going to try to recover gracefully. So, that's what exception handling is. When something goes wrong, like you try to assign, something to something that it can't be assigned to, an exception is thrown.
Marcus M Darden: Like, when you try to say, well, hey, print this number, and it's a string, say, hey, that's the wrong type, you can't do that, an exception is thrown. So exception handling involves trying a thing.
Marcus M Darden: And then…
Marcus M Darden: learning how to recover if it goes horribly wrong. So, it helps you from… and we'll be using it in our pipelines to just clean up values or missing values if stuff isn't there as we start working in less friendly data sets.
Marcus M Darden: We'll find more problems. The dataset we're working on today is very friendly, there's nothing missing, there's nothing wrong.
Marcus M Darden: The dataset in Project 1 has got a little bit of challenges to it, but in later courses, and even later in this course, you'll be finding things that you really have to do some work to clean up your data, because that's… that's real life. So, we'll use tryExcept, which is a couple of the Python keywords.
Marcus M Darden: And they set up a thing that says, let me do that, I'll use that to convert integers and strings safely.
Marcus M Darden: If a conversion fails, what we do is we just
Marcus M Darden: We try to convert. If it fails, then we just use the default, and we're in good shape. So, here's kind of what it might look like.
Marcus M Darden: in parseInt. So this function is expecting me to give it a string that holds an integer in it, but I want to turn that integer into an actual integer. So if I gave you the characters 456, I'm trying to say I want you to turn that into the integer 456.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So, got def there that says I'm creating a function, and that function is called parseInt. It takes some value, which we're thinking is a string, and then I've got this default parameter, which I'm gonna say, you can send it in if you want to.
Marcus M Darden: But if you don't, we're gonna use zero.
Marcus M Darden: That's why it says default equals zero. So, the name of it is default. I could have called that Tim, or Frank, or anything I wanted to. I just chose to call it default. So…
Marcus M Darden: The fact that it's default is descriptive of what I'm using it for. I'm using it for the default value if I can't convert value into an int. So then you see, the next two lines, they don't show by default.
Marcus M Darden: Line 3 is like the YOLO line. It's like, hey, return this thing as an int!
Marcus M Darden: And if value is a string, int on a string like that will convert that to an integer and just kick back the integer and we'll be good. But if it's not a string, then exception gets thrown.
Marcus M Darden: Right? And if I don't have this try-accept around it, my program crashes.
Marcus M Darden: Because you just tried to do something illegal. So TRI says, go ahead and do this, and if anything illegal happens inside there, you've got a chance to catch it.
Marcus M Darden: Because I'm only catching, right here in this accept line, I say, if it's a type error, or if it's a value error, catch it. If it's any other kind of error, we're still crashing.
Marcus M Darden: But, given what I'm doing, I don't expect there to be any other types of errors, so this is all the errors I need to catch. So, you might have, in more complicated situations, you might have multiple accepts, so you gotta try to do this. If I get this kind of error, do X. If I get some other kind of error, do Y. And if I get some other kind of error than that, then just crash, or whatever, right? Or you can put a default in there and just say, no matter what.
Marcus M Darden: don't crash, maybe this is production software, and you don't want your rocket steerer to go offline? I don't know. So, but that's how you use it. So, if you wrap it in this try accept, then what happens is I just try to do it. If it works, I'm done.
Marcus M Darden: If it throws one of these exceptions, type error or value error, then rather than dying, what I'm going to do is do what's inside the block.
Marcus M Darden: Right? And this just says, okay, we'll return the default. So,
Marcus M Darden: when I get in there, you can see that I run parse 42,
Marcus M Darden: which converts easily to an integer. I run parseInt on bad, which doesn't convert to an integer, it's a bunch of letters.
Marcus M Darden: But it… doesn't crash.
Marcus M Darden: Right? It just says, hey, look, you got a zero out of that. So, the funny thing about the default here is sometimes the default might be a real value, so you gotta be careful there.
Marcus M Darden: So what you really want to do is you want to make sure your value is… not a legal…
Marcus M Darden: returnable, right? So, because I don't want to not know the difference, well, somebody tried to turn zero into zero, and that was okay, and so I should just be okay with that. Or somebody tried to turn bad into numbers, and I got a zero because it was…
Marcus M Darden: failure here. So this one is another one that says parse int, and I gave it none, which is, of course, gonna crash, it's not an int.
Marcus M Darden: And then that one returns a negative 1. So because we're setting the default in the call, now it gets done there. So you can see how, if I try to do this without parse int, what if I just said int of…
Marcus M Darden: Worse.
Marcus M Darden: And then I hit run.
Marcus M Darden: See, there, my program crashed.
Marcus M Darden: And it tells me why it crashed. Python said, hey, you've got a value error.
Marcus M Darden: And the stacked, it crashed, in this cell here, N3, line 9. Boom, boom, boom, it says return, blah blah blah, there's the problem. Value error, and the quote is, it's an invalid literal for int with base 10.
Marcus M Darden: Turns out I could have turned that into, an integer.
Marcus M Darden: Had I been working in base 16, right? Because base 16 uses all those characters. So, that's what happens if we don't use our try accept, we just do it.
Marcus M Darden: the program crashes. So here we saw it fail on bad, it also failed on none, but it didn't crash there. It only crashed because I wasn't using exception handling.
Marcus M Darden: Questions?
Marcus M Darden: Yeah. What is the type of the payer type error and value error? Is that a…
Marcus M Darden: Like, this value error thing? No, the accept, we have a pair of type error and value error is… what is the… Oh, those two things? Okay, so what that's saying is, like, it says if the exception is of type value error, or it's of type error. Like, it's a different, it's a different thing. So, when you try something else, it might be a different error. So those are the two errors that we might see.
Marcus M Darden: Let me see… I bet if I try this with, int… None.
Marcus M Darden: Let's run that.
Marcus M Darden: Oh, it's gonna die here first, so let's comment that out, and then run it. So there you go. It's a type error. So the int thing is saying, hey, you're gonna give me a string, and I'm gonna convert that. So the first one, bad and worse, said, yeah, you gave me a string, but the value of that is junk.
Marcus M Darden: This one said, hey, I was looking for a string, but you gave me none, and I don't know what to do with that because it's the wrong type. So this one handles both type errors and value errors, and then converts them into something that is going to be an integer. So that's how we use exception handling, especially on dirty data.
Marcus M Darden: Good?
Marcus M Darden: And, like I said, Python just likes to just run out there and do it. Like, line 3, return this as an int!
Marcus M Darden: But… The exception happens. Sometimes.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, so, that's the Python that we need to get straightened out. We're still gonna be seeing maybe some new stuff in these next set of slides, but…
Marcus M Darden: This is looking like a good time for a quick break, since we already broke our breakup. We were supposed to break about 15 minutes ago, but we got all that intro stuff, so… I'm gonna give you a 2- or 3-minute break, go grab some water, and then we'll come back.
Marcus M Darden: If you come up with any questions along the way, please, please, let's get them back when I get back.
Marcus M Darden: Thank you.
Marcus M Darden: You already have one.
Marcus M Darden: There we go.
Marcus M Darden: Like, I was so… Rocky.
Marcus M Darden: That's helpful, obviously.
Marcus M Darden: Not very good graduate students.
Marcus M Darden: Definitely.
Marcus M Darden: If I push my changes, and then you push your changes. Because my changes might be different, right?
Marcus M Darden: What do you mean?
Marcus M Darden: Nice.
Marcus M Darden: Okay, so we have to… Cool.
Marcus M Darden: Thanks, Stephanie.
Marcus M Darden: Thanks.
Marcus M Darden: Dirschitz.
Marcus M Darden: All right.
Marcus M Darden: Let's try again.
Marcus M Darden: It's a snapshot feature. Okay, we'll deal with it later.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, so, now we're on the first half of today's lecture.
Marcus M Darden: With only 20 minutes to go.
Marcus M Darden: But…
Marcus M Darden: We'll be fine. The goal is… sorry, and also, too, I can fill you in… the goal on Thursday is to probably spend the first half of the lecture really deep diving on Git. How many people here are decent at Git?
Marcus M Darden: Nobody's decent at your decent? We got, like, one or two people decent. Okay, so we definitely need some work on Git, so…
Marcus M Darden: Good news! That's already the plan. So, on Thursday, we'll be spending half the time probably on Git, and it's also gonna be great on Friday when you need to maybe brush up on some of that with Wraith as well. So,
Marcus M Darden: check out Thursday and Friday for Git. But for now, anything that is sort of beyond you in the slides in Git, just… just do a la-la-la-la-la, and then don't worry about it, alright? We can go back later and fix it, that's the cool thing about Git, is it's this
Marcus M Darden: Time machine on steroids, so you can always just fix it later, even if it's the past.
Marcus M Darden: All right, so, segment one here, we're starting in the Python standard library. There's some stuff in the second half we like, there are gonna be some really strong data tools that are external libraries, and we're not going to use them in the first half. So the first half is just all standard live stuff.
Marcus M Darden: If you've installed Python, then you got it.
Marcus M Darden: So, the thing that we're going to talk about is using PathLib to find data files. And PathLib is this standard library.
Marcus M Darden: for… Locating stuff, and it turns paths into objects.
Marcus M Darden: Python likes to work with everything as an object, and a path is a conceptual place to find something, but in order to interact with it programmatically, PathLib turns our paths into file systems. In PathLib, you use this slash to join parts of a path.
Marcus M Darden: So you might think of parts of the path, what is he talking about, right? Remember when I was here, I started with a line that looked like…
Marcus M Darden: That.
Marcus M Darden: I said, change directory into courses slash EX291 slash EX291 dash W26. So that is the path I wanted it to follow. So this is what a path is, and different operating systems use different things to separate there. Notably,
Marcus M Darden: Everybody uses slashes, except Windows, who uses backslashes. So, when you want to have portable code, you can't just put a slash in there, it might break. So, in the case of PathLib, they're saying you can use this slash in code
Marcus M Darden: And Pathlib will handle the rest. If you're running on Mac, it will do it right. If you're running on Windows, it will do it right. But you don't have to worry about writing two separate pieces of code in case somebody writes it on this machine or that machine. So, you always use the slash.
Marcus M Darden: And you can check inputs with .exists or .isfile before you do some reading.
Marcus M Darden: And we can also use glob patterns.
Marcus M Darden: Something like this. Dot glob means it's a function, these parentheses say I'm calling a function on a pathlib object.
Marcus M Darden: dot glob is the name of that function, and the argument is this string that has asterisk.csv. That asterisk is a placeholder for… it's a wildcard placeholder. So it says anything, any combination of characters without spaces.
Marcus M Darden: dot CSV is going to be found. I think it will even find them with spaces. It will just quote them.
Marcus M Darden: So, you're gonna see how we'll use that here, right?
Marcus M Darden: from pathlib, import path. So we talked about import statements on Tuesday last week, Thursday last week. One of the ways that we get stuff from external libraries, in this case we're using something from the standard library that's not always included in every instance of Python, so we're going to say from pathlib, import path.
Marcus M Darden: And that's why this word right here now, this capital P path, is legal. Had I not done that import.
Marcus M Darden: this wouldn't know what was going on, it would just fail there. So I say, make me a variable called data directory, and that's equal to path.
Marcus M Darden: and start locally, where we currently are, and look for something named data, right? And those data are supposed to be folders.
Marcus M Darden: Right? So it's saying, look for a folder named Data.
Marcus M Darden: Then we've got a nice range-based for loop.
Marcus M Darden: what's it gonna do there? It's gonna go through each of the things in this next expression. And sorted…
Marcus M Darden: Takes some iterable and returns a sorted version of it.
Marcus M Darden: So, that's what it's gonna do. It's gonna go through each one of the things in path. That's a sorted thing, and so it prints that path name, so I think if we run that…
Marcus M Darden: it should work, so let's jump in here, and for now, I'm just going to… Comment these things out.
Marcus M Darden: Or no.
Marcus M Darden: Trying those out. Four path, insorted, blah blah blah, and we run.
Marcus M Darden: And we see there, I get artists.json, plays, tracks, and that's alphabetical order. It might have shown up in that order, but you don't want Mike to be controlling what your code does. So, we're nice and sure that we're gonna get this in sorted order if I run that through, right? So, another thing that I could do is…
Marcus M Darden: just run that myself. What is in there without sorting it?
Marcus M Darden: If I just said, data dir… dot glob… Asterisk.
Marcus M Darden: There we go.
Marcus M Darden: And run.
Marcus M Darden: So, when I run it, I get this generator object, which is a Python way to short…
Marcus M Darden: hand some stuff, but I can ask this thing, this object, this generator object can function like an iterable, so I can start looping through the things in this. So the generator object
Marcus M Darden: behaves like an iterable, in the sense that if you ask it for the next thing, it will give you the next thing. But it doesn't necessarily have all of them, whereas a list has those 5 things in there. This generator may not have things in it, but every time I ask it to give me the next one, it could give me the next one. So it will behave just like an iterable.
Marcus M Darden: Until the generator decides there's no more nexts, and then it stops. So…
Marcus M Darden: That's why when I say glob, I get that thing, and then sorted can take an iterable, turn that into a sorted list, I believe.
Marcus M Darden: So, let's look at that, and if I say sorted of data, dir.glob, all the things, and run.
Marcus M Darden: So there you see what it looks like.
Marcus M Darden: POSIX path, it goes into each one of the things that
Marcus M Darden: Glob will give it, and then it sorts them.
Marcus M Darden: The print then just says, hey, each one of these paths, I need to know what your name is, and the path is data slash artists.json, and the name is understood to be the file name itself. So that's why, when I do the print statement, all I see is artists, plays, and tracks.
Marcus M Darden: Alright?
Marcus M Darden: So far, so good. So that part of the code, understandable. I'm gonna delete that, take it out, and then what's left is…
Marcus M Darden: I can take that data dir, And because Datadir is
Marcus M Darden: a pathlib object, it knows how to make new paths. So I can say, data dir slash tracks.csv, and that's a new thing.
Marcus M Darden: So if I were to comment this out, and then just run it… No.
Marcus M Darden: I didn't say do that, so tracks… dot CSV, there we go.
Marcus M Darden: So that's an individual path.
Marcus M Darden: name data and tracks.csv. Now, the way that I created that was just by saying, here is a real path object, and append this name to that object. So we don't know if that's really a file, it's just a path.
Marcus M Darden: Right? Because paths don't have to have files there. I could be using a path to create a file. I could be using a path to look up a file, I could be using a path to look up some folders, so any one of these things. So, the next, three… the next three lines then just create these three paths.
Marcus M Darden: One for tracks, one for plays, and one for artists.
Marcus M Darden: So they all get created as paths, we don't know if they actually exist.
Marcus M Darden: That's what this next line does, says, hey, let's print whether or not each one of those files actually exists.
Marcus M Darden: So when I rock that one, you'll see true, true, true.
Marcus M Darden: Now, if I had said something wrong, like track.csv, it would still be a valid path.
Marcus M Darden: But when I tried to go say, hey, does this path exist? It would say, no, there is no such file as
Marcus M Darden: data slash track dot CSV.
Marcus M Darden: So that's how I do it. It said also in the, previous slide, you can use exists.
Marcus M Darden: I can't double-click there. Habits. Whoa, where do we go?
Marcus M Darden: I jumped all the way back to the beginning.
Marcus M Darden: Mistakes on this thing. Okay, go. There we go.
Marcus M Darden: Alright.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, I'm back. So, yeah, so that's what I'm saying. We have to check to see, and the other thing that it said we could also do is we could say, isFile is another way to do it.
Marcus M Darden: So, is underscore file.
Marcus M Darden: And you see now, is underscore file also returns true there.
Marcus M Darden: But I could also add something like, well, how about… Data dur.
Marcus M Darden: Is… is that a file?
Marcus M Darden: Is that a file, or is that a folder?
Marcus M Darden: Turns out it's not a file.
Marcus M Darden: It exists, I bet. I could try that one.
Marcus M Darden: data dir.exists.
Marcus M Darden: Sure. So there's how you can get some information from this PathLib, right, these PathLib objects. They say that data dir is not a file, but it does exist.
Marcus M Darden: In this case, tracks, plays, and artists, those are all existing. I mean, I made them, so I'm sure that they're files, but if you need more information, you have to get it in the level that you needed.
Marcus M Darden: So far, so good?
Marcus M Darden: Nice.
Marcus M Darden: All right, let me get out of that, and then I can go to the next slide.
Marcus M Darden: I thought I subsided that. Oh, I didn't edit it. Okay. We do this. Reading data from files.
Marcus M Darden: Sorry, I'm just gonna tweak this a little bit so it's easier to see.
Marcus M Darden: So, slide… there we go.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, reading data from files, we're gonna use width to open files. There is
Marcus M Darden: an open command, but one of the things that you do in another language, like C++, is you'll say, hey, open this file, read from this file, close this file.
Marcus M Darden: It's a pretty standard pattern in many languages. Python uses something different with this width keyword, and it's called a context manager.
Marcus M Darden: So I use with, and it allows me to use as to give something a name.
Marcus M Darden: tracks CSV, we know that's to be a path to a file, because we created it on the previous thing. And then I can say .open.
Marcus M Darden: which is a function that works on files to open them, and I say I want to open that with new lines as…
Marcus M Darden: the empty character there, and a UTF-8 encoding. I say, with that open as file.
Marcus M Darden: So that's my contacts manager, and then my colon there tells me I'm starting a block, and everything is indented underneath that. Now, as long as I'm in that indent.
Marcus M Darden: this file that I've just opened is opened…
Marcus M Darden: And it's named File. As soon as I get out of the indent, the file automatically closes. So I don't have to be like, hey, open it, do some stuff, oh, I forgot to close it. That was an old thing I used to do all the time. You forget to close a file, then your program crashes, and the operating system doesn't know the file is…
Marcus M Darden: has been released and you can't get to stuff, this handles that really nicely. So, once we're in this block, we've got it, and so you see I can say in line 5 here, print something from file. In line 8, I can read from that file.
Marcus M Darden: I can deal with stuff in terms of file, and I don't have to name it, whatever it was, tracks.csv. You could name it tracks if you wanted to, that might be a good way to do it, to help you sort of keep track of things. You could say, open tracks CSV as tracks.
Marcus M Darden: Right? Then you say, print tracks.
Marcus M Darden: dot readline for… track… In tracks.
Marcus M Darden: Print track.
Marcus M Darden: So, let me just change the names on things, but remember, as we're writing programs.
Marcus M Darden: Programs are supposed to be something that humans can read very well, with the side effect that computers can also run them. So, if the humans can't read them well, it's a poor level of communication to you, or your future you, or your teammates, or whatever. So, here I've got a version of this that says, open that file.
Marcus M Darden: read a line, and then print it. So, let's run it.
Marcus M Darden: There we go.
Marcus M Darden: So I did read line, which read the first full line.
Marcus M Darden: And that line was kind of like my header, you see it's got track ID, track name, artist, ID, genre, and duration in there. So, when I did read line and print in line 5, it gave me that first thing. Then I went through the loop.
Marcus M Darden: and looked at every track that was remaining in the file, and I printed it. So we didn't read the header twice. You can only read each line of a file once. It's like a stream. They're literally called streams.
Marcus M Darden: And you can imagine, if you throw something into a stream, and the stream is going downstream, when you put it there, it's not there anymore. So it's the same sort of thing. You can sort of grab something out of the stream, but then other things in the stream continue to move on. So you can't grab the same
Marcus M Darden: fish…
Marcus M Darden: out of a stream twice. You can't grab the fish now, wait for a little bit longer, and say, oh wait, I wanted to see that fish again. Let me grab that same fish. It's not there. So, that's what's going on here. The first read line just reads it at a line. The second one allows me to iterate the file, so that has turned the file into an iterable.
Marcus M Darden: And in this case, what I've done is, I've gone in there and said, well, just print the current thing.
Marcus M Darden: Like, another way that I could have done this, is…
Marcus M Darden: let's go back here and say, what if I wanted to say, track listing…
Marcus M Darden: is a list comprehension, that is, track, 4-track in tracks.
Marcus M Darden: And then what we're gonna do is… track listing.
Marcus M Darden: Alright, so I'm just gonna comment these out.
Marcus M Darden: And what did I do there? I turned that into a comprehension, and I created a list of those things. So it's not going to print out the same way that it was before.
Marcus M Darden: I didn't print track listing at all,
Marcus M Darden: Let's return it. There we go.
Marcus M Darden: Return outside of function.
Marcus M Darden: I'm not outside the function. What are you talking about?
Marcus M Darden: Oh, I know what the problem is, no? Not the problem?
Marcus M Darden: Oh.
Marcus M Darden: I know what the problem is. I'm not in a function.
Marcus M Darden: I'm inside of this context.
Marcus M Darden: I'm talking about contacts managers, I'm off… off track here. Alright, so, let's go into, then, just…
Marcus M Darden: Print track listing. We can't return it, I thought I was in a function.
Marcus M Darden: So there you see that I've turned that entire file into a list of strings using a comprehension. Now, if I wanted to, I could then turn around and use this same loop that we had before.
Marcus M Darden: To say, 4-track in track listing, print track.
Marcus M Darden: And when I run that…
Marcus M Darden: You see, I get the same output. But now the difference is, I've got the output that I had before, and I also have all of these things inside a variable names tracked listing that has them as a list.
Marcus M Darden: So, that's how you… you might, depending on what you're trying to accomplish, you might need to do that one of two different ways, so…
Marcus M Darden: All right, so we're at the 420 spot right there, which ends us here. So, we'll get back at segment 3 when we pick up on the other side of the Git content on Thursday. That make sense?
Marcus M Darden: Anything else before we go?
Marcus M Darden: Well, thanks for coming. We'll get after it some more, and I'll put a summary up on this thing and finalize this, as soon as the processing happens.
Marcus M Darden: I'll see you on Thursday.
Marcus M Darden: Because he said the word on it gets to the blue.
Marcus M Darden: There is something about this story. Well, our goal is to teach that same stuff.
Marcus M Darden: just a little bit… had a little bit different focus, right? It's more applied and less theoretical, but you should still know
Marcus M Darden: The same stuff there.